samples/sno_on_libvirt/README.md, before:

# Playbooks to deploy Single Node Openshift on a libvirt VM

Single Node OpenShift is a Red Hat Openshift deployment designed to have a small footprint that fits constrained environments and Edge computing needs.

The deployment consists on  a Single Cluster Node playing the Master and Worker Node at the same time. Single-node OpenShift deployment does not have an option to add additional hosts Single-node OpenShift isn’t highly-available. It explicitly does not assume zero downtime of the Kubernetes API.

## Pre-requisites

- A RHEL 8.4 server with direct internet access
- Ansible >= 2.9
- A valid Red Hat subscription
  - Access to `rhel-8-for-x86_64-baseos-rpms` and `rhel-8-for-x86_64-appstream-rpms` repositories is required
  - If the vars activation_key and org_id are provided, the system registration to the proper subscriptions is done during the deployment

The playbook `deploy-sno-standalone.yml` has been also tested in Fedora 34.

## Hardware Requirements

These are the pseudo-official requirements to run:
- vCPU: 8
- RAM: 32 GB
- Storage: 120 GB

But we have been able to get it deployed with:
- vCPU: 6
- RAM: 16 GB
- Storage: 20 GB

## Prepare SNO node

This is where the OCP/SNO installation will be launched, and where the VM will be running OpenShift.

### 1. Configuration

Create your `~/sno-node-settings.yml` file to declare your variables.

NOTE: You can provide your RHN password in plaintext but is not recommended.

```yaml
dci_client_id: remoteci/XXXXXXXXX
dci_api_secret: API-SECRET-GOES-HERE
rhn_user: your-rhn-user
rhn_pass: !vault |
          $ANSIBLE_VAULT;1.1;AES256
          VAULTED_RHN_PASSWORD
github_user: your-github-user
```

* Please engage the DCI team if you do not have the proper access keys and you want to use the Red Hat Distributed CI service during your deployments.

### 2. Prepare the inventory

The playbook "sno-on-libvirt.yml" setup the pre-requisites in the SNO Host, it explicitly looks for the group name `[sno_host]` and will fail if it does not find it.
This is also predicated on actually being run on a workstation or server different than the soon-to-be SNO provisioner node.

```bash
your-user@your-workstation ~$ echo "[sno_host]" | sudo tee -a /etc/ansible/hosts
your-user@your-workstation ~$ echo "mysnoserver ansible_user=user-with-sudo-priv ansible_host=some-server" | sudo tee -a /etc/ansible/hosts
```

### 3. Run playbook

This will subscribe the SNO host to Red Hat CDN, install external repos, DCI agents, and setup the dci-openshift-agent user to be able to launch an OCP/SNO deployment on next step.

```bash
your-user@your-workstation ~$ cd samples/sno_on_libvirt/
your-user@your-workstation ~$ ansible-playbook sno-on-libvirt.yml -e "@~/sno-node-settings.yml" -i /etc/ansible/hosts --vault-password-file ~/.vault_secret
```

NOTE: The playbook sno-on-libvirt.yml, it copies the default inventory `samples/sno_on_libvirt/hosts` to `/etc/dci-openshift-agent/hosts` which contains required variables, including a very important one: `install_type=sno` this will allow DCI agent to define which install to perform.

Choose one deployment method:

## A) Deploy with DCI from the SNO provisioner node

SNO only works on OCP 4.8 and above. Please ensure your `/etc/dci-openshift-agent/settings.yml` has only 4.8 references.

```bash
sudo su - dci-openshift-agent
source /etc/dci-openshift-agent/dcirc.sh
cd /usr/share/dci-openshift-agent
ansible-playbook dci-openshift-agent.yml -i /etc/dci-openshift-agent/hosts  -e "@/etc/dci-openshift-agent/settings.yml"
```

or

```bash
sudo su - dci-openshift-agent
source /etc/dci-openshift-agent/dcirc.sh
dci-openshift-agent-ctl -s -- -v
```

## B) Deploy without DCI from the SNO provisioner node

### 1. Inventory Notes

If you run the playbook sno-on-libvirt.yml, it copies the default inventory `samples/sno_on_libvirt/hosts` to `/etc/dci-openshift-agent/hosts`.
This inventory contains defaults values for the SNO/OCP cluster setup, and SNO plays will validate if they are provided:

- pull secret
- domain
- cluster name
- dir to store deployment files
- extcidrnet

Additionally the following groups are defined:

- provisioner group and host entry
- master group and host entry
- worker group (no need to add hosts to this group

If you did not run sno-on-libvirt.yml playbook, you can copy the default inventory and adapt it to your setup, make sure you include the variables above.

```bash
cp samples/sno_on_libvirt/hosts /etc/dci-openshift-agent/hosts
```

If you use the default inventory, then you only need to provide the pullsecret variable. A pull secret can be obtained from the [Red Hat Console](https://console.redhat.com/openshift/downloads) under Token > pullsecret section.

```bash
$ sudo vi /etc/dci-openshift-agent/hosts
...
pullsecret="{{ lookup('file', '<PATH_TO_PULLSECRET>')|string }}"
...
```
### 2. Set OCP/SNO version
If you want to deploy a specific version of SNO >= 4.8 then update the version variable or build variable with (ga or dev)

```bash
$ sudo su - dci-openshift-agent
cd /usr/share/dci-openshift-agent
vi ~/samples/sno_on_libvirt/deploy-sno-standalone.yml
...
version="4.8.X"
build="ga"
cluster="dcisno"
...
```

### 3. Deploy

```bash
sudo su - dci-openshift-agent
cd /usr/share/dci-openshift-agent
ansible-playbook ~/samples/sno_on_libvirt/deploy-sno-standalone.yml -i /etc/dci-openshift-agent/hosts
```

### 4. Access the GUI

* Adding the admin user to the httpassd Identity provider and assign to to the cluster-admin role.

```bash
touch htpasswd
htpasswd -Bb htpasswd admin <your_password>
oc --user=admin create secret generic htpasswd --from-file=htpasswd -n openshift-config
oc replace -f - <<API
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1
kind: OAuth
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  identityProviders:
  - name: Local Password
    mappingMethod: claim
    type: HTPasswd
    htpasswd:
      fileData:
        name: htpasswd
API

oc adm policy add-cluster-role-to-group cluster-admin admin
```

* Add the following entries to you local host file:
```bash
192.168.126.10 api.dcisno.example.com console-openshift-console.apps.dcisno.example.com oauth-openshift.apps.dcisno.example.com
```

* The OCP GUI should be ready at: https://console-openshift-console.apps.dcisno.example.com


## Destroy the SNO VM and perform some cleanup

NOTE: The sno-installer role by default cleans up before a deployment

```bash
sudo su - dci-openshift-agent
cd ~/samples/sno_on_libvirt/
ansible-playbook deploy-sno-standalone.yml -t cleanup
```

Commit message:

Random passwords generation for OCP users
- Passwords were in plain text in the playbooks
- Adding missing information about how to interact with the OCP clusters
- Fix for login during cnf-tests
- Removing duplicated call to oc-setup during testing. The kubeconfig and clients do not change after operators deployment

Change-Id: I970beb610b0d45a46da06b27a20a61330cc04eea

samples/sno_on_libvirt/README.md, after:

# Playbooks to deploy Single Node Openshift on a libvirt VM

Single Node OpenShift is a Red Hat Openshift deployment designed to have a small footprint that fits constrained environments and Edge computing needs.

The deployment consists on  a Single Cluster Node playing the Master and Worker Node at the same time. Single-node OpenShift deployment does not have an option to add additional hosts Single-node OpenShift isn’t highly-available. It explicitly does not assume zero downtime of the Kubernetes API.

## Pre-requisites

- A RHEL 8.4 server with direct internet access
- Ansible >= 2.9
- A valid Red Hat subscription
  - Access to `rhel-8-for-x86_64-baseos-rpms` and `rhel-8-for-x86_64-appstream-rpms` repositories is required
  - If the vars activation_key and org_id are provided, the system registration to the proper subscriptions is done during the deployment

The playbook `deploy-sno-standalone.yml` has been also tested in Fedora 34.

## Hardware Requirements

These are the pseudo-official requirements to run:
- vCPU: 8
- RAM: 32 GB
- Storage: 120 GB

But we have been able to get it deployed with:
- vCPU: 6
- RAM: 16 GB
- Storage: 20 GB

## Prepare SNO node

This is where the OCP/SNO installation will be launched, and where the VM will be running OpenShift.

### 1. Configuration

Create your `~/sno-node-settings.yml` file to declare your variables.

NOTE: You can provide your RHN password in plaintext but is not recommended.

```yaml
dci_client_id: remoteci/XXXXXXXXX
dci_api_secret: API-SECRET-GOES-HERE
rhn_user: your-rhn-user
rhn_pass: !vault |
          $ANSIBLE_VAULT;1.1;AES256
          VAULTED_RHN_PASSWORD
github_user: your-github-user
```

* Please engage the DCI team if you do not have the proper access keys and you want to use the Red Hat Distributed CI service during your deployments.

### 2. Prepare the inventory

The playbook "sno-on-libvirt.yml" setup the pre-requisites in the SNO Host, it explicitly looks for the group name `[sno_host]` and will fail if it does not find it.
This is also predicated on actually being run on a workstation or server different than the soon-to-be SNO provisioner node.

```bash
your-user@your-workstation ~$ echo "[sno_host]" | sudo tee -a /etc/ansible/hosts
your-user@your-workstation ~$ echo "mysnoserver ansible_user=user-with-sudo-priv ansible_host=some-server" | sudo tee -a /etc/ansible/hosts
```

### 3. Run playbook

This will subscribe the SNO host to Red Hat CDN, install external repos, DCI agents, and setup the dci-openshift-agent user to be able to launch an OCP/SNO deployment on next step.

```bash
your-user@your-workstation ~$ cd samples/sno_on_libvirt/
your-user@your-workstation ~$ ansible-playbook sno-on-libvirt.yml -e "@~/sno-node-settings.yml" -i /etc/ansible/hosts --vault-password-file ~/.vault_secret
```

NOTE: The playbook sno-on-libvirt.yml, it copies the default inventory `samples/sno_on_libvirt/hosts` to `/etc/dci-openshift-agent/hosts` which contains required variables, including a very important one: `install_type=sno` this will allow DCI agent to define which install to perform.

Choose one deployment method:

## A) Deploy with DCI from the SNO provisioner node

SNO only works on OCP 4.8 and above. Please ensure your `/etc/dci-openshift-agent/settings.yml` has only 4.8 references.

```bash
sudo su - dci-openshift-agent
source /etc/dci-openshift-agent/dcirc.sh
cd /usr/share/dci-openshift-agent
ansible-playbook dci-openshift-agent.yml -i /etc/dci-openshift-agent/hosts  -e "@/etc/dci-openshift-agent/settings.yml"
```

or

```bash
sudo su - dci-openshift-agent
source /etc/dci-openshift-agent/dcirc.sh
dci-openshift-agent-ctl -s -- -v
```

## B) Deploy without DCI from the SNO provisioner node

### 1. Inventory Notes

If you run the playbook sno-on-libvirt.yml, it copies the default inventory `samples/sno_on_libvirt/hosts` to `/etc/dci-openshift-agent/hosts`.
This inventory contains defaults values for the SNO/OCP cluster setup, and SNO plays will validate if they are provided:

- pull secret
- domain
- cluster name
- dir to store deployment files
- extcidrnet

Additionally the following groups are defined:

- provisioner group and host entry
- master group and host entry
- worker group (no need to add hosts to this group

If you did not run sno-on-libvirt.yml playbook, you can copy the default inventory and adapt it to your setup, make sure you include the variables above.

```bash
cp samples/sno_on_libvirt/hosts /etc/dci-openshift-agent/hosts
```

If you use the default inventory, then you only need to provide the pullsecret variable. A pull secret can be obtained from the [Red Hat Console](https://console.redhat.com/openshift/downloads) under Token > pullsecret section.

```bash
$ sudo vi /etc/dci-openshift-agent/hosts
...
pullsecret="{{ lookup('file', '<PATH_TO_PULLSECRET>')|string }}"
...
```
### 2. Set OCP/SNO version
If you want to deploy a specific version of SNO >= 4.8 then update the version variable or build variable with (ga or dev)

```bash
$ sudo su - dci-openshift-agent
cd /usr/share/dci-openshift-agent
vi ~/samples/sno_on_libvirt/deploy-sno-standalone.yml
...
version="4.8.X"
build="ga"
cluster="dcisno"
...
```

### 3. Deploy

```bash
sudo su - dci-openshift-agent
cd /usr/share/dci-openshift-agent
ansible-playbook ~/samples/sno_on_libvirt/deploy-sno-standalone.yml -i /etc/dci-openshift-agent/hosts
```

### 4. Access the GUI

If SNO is deployed using DCI, the dci-openshift-agent will create 2 users for the API/GUI. Please review /home/`<user>`/`<clusterconfigs-path>`/ocp_creds.txt file in the jumphost for details and change the passwords if needed.

In case SNO is deployed using the standalone mode, please follow the process below to create a local user for the GUI/API.

* Adding the admin user to the httpassd Identity provider and assign to to the cluster-admin role.

```bash
touch htpasswd
htpasswd -Bb htpasswd admin <your_password>
oc --user=admin create secret generic htpasswd --from-file=htpasswd -n openshift-config
oc replace -f - <<API
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1
kind: OAuth
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  identityProviders:
  - name: Local Password
    mappingMethod: claim
    type: HTPasswd
    htpasswd:
      fileData:
        name: htpasswd
API

oc adm policy add-cluster-role-to-group cluster-admin admin
```

* Add the following entries to you local host file:
```bash
192.168.126.10 api.dcisno.example.com console-openshift-console.apps.dcisno.example.com oauth-openshift.apps.dcisno.example.com
```

* The OCP GUI should be ready at: https://console-openshift-console.apps.dcisno.example.com


## Destroy the SNO VM and perform some cleanup

NOTE: The sno-installer role by default cleans up before a deployment

```bash
sudo su - dci-openshift-agent
cd ~/samples/sno_on_libvirt/
ansible-playbook deploy-sno-standalone.yml -t cleanup
```
